---
layout: post
title:  "Krakow- Itinerary and Things to Do"
date:  2025-02-16 11:24:14 -0500
tags: [travel]
---

# A list of things I did in Krakow!
1. **Wawel Castle** (~3 hours): Took an audio tour here, I enjoyed learning about the history, but it may not be necessary if you're not looking for that.
2. **Rynek Underground Museum** (~3 hours): be careful, there may be crowds and you'll need to wait. But it is very worth it. A well-maintained museum that demonstrates the development of Krakow's town center and market over the centuries, including some pre-history and pre-Christianisation displays.
3. **Kazimierz district**: went here every evening. It is the old Jewish district of Krakow, and is intact from before WWII. In the summer, there are street musicians and you can soak in the music and atmosphere while eating a zapiekanka (polish 'pizza'- the term 'pizza' here is used loosely).
4. **Schindler's Factory Museum**: 10/10, recommend. Took me about 2 hours, and it was very informative. If you've watched [Schindler's List](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schindler%27s_List), you will know what this museum is. 
5. **Wieliczka Salt Mine**: a train ride away from the city center. A very relaxing place. I took the tour of the mines in English, and the history delighted me! Nicholas Copernicus also visited the mines as a tourist!
6. **Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial and Museum**: A day trip from Krakow. This was a must-see for me, and it was a very somber place. I recommend visiting this place, even if you might not be as interested in history. You can take a taxi, group tour, or bus to Auschwitz. It's called Oświęcim, so don't get confused.
7. **Rynek Główny**: main square of Old Town. A great place to wander. You can also visit St. Mary's Basilica here.
8. **Czatoryski Museum**: I actually stumbled upon this museum while I was wandering the city. It also happened to be a Tuesday (as far as I remember), when visiting the museum is free! I ended up spending 4 hours here; there are a lot of artefacts, a beautiful Rembrandt, and Da Vinci's "Lady with an Ermine". The art collection here is gorgeous, and they also have a lot of artefacts from other countries (don't know how they got here 🤷‍♀️). Highlight: they had some artefacts from [Ashurbanipal's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ashurbanipal) time!
9. **Hotel Copernicus**: a fine-dining restaurant featuring a rooftop spots drink. 

# A list of things you should explore if you've got the time!
1. A trip to the **Zakopane mountains** nearby.
